The Joe Rogan experience.
And one of the things that I want to talk to,
cause I haven't talked to you since the pandemic start.
Last time I talked to you was screwball, right? Like how long ago.
Was that? Oh yeah. Well, 2019. Yeah, it was.
Right before the hit the fan. That was the last time we talked.
We were talking about that documentary and then when all this happened and so
much of the wackiness and the, you know,
the controversies coming out of Florida, like you embrace the chaos of Florida.
Yeah. Florida fuckery is our genre and it's our also our top export I think,
is as well. It's really what we provide the rest of the.
And COVID you, I mean, look about how much your work is about Florida,
the cocaine Cowboys series, you know, all the stuff on a rod,
like all the there's there's so much of your, your work.
The petrifying, I'm a Florida native, you know, a lifelong Miami.
And I think the petrifying thing that I've learned through the years,
and it's not my theory, uh, TD almond called Miami,
the city of the future and effectively,
the Florida of today is the America of tomorrow. And more importantly,
the Miami of today,
more specifically the Miami of today is the America of tomorrow.
So if you want to know what, uh,
challenges we'll face or calamities will befall us as a nation in the years or
even decades to come. And you need only look at the Canary in the coal mine,
which is which.
Florida do you think that's because of it's very vulnerable to climate change.
First of all, right? Like there's,
there's estimates about how long Miami can last. Yeah.
But not good. Yeah.
They don't, they think we got about two decades. Right? Isn't that the.
Thought I'm a renter. You put you that way. I've lived there my whole life.
I don't own property in Miami. It's probably a good move. I'm not.
Bullish. It does. It seems like it's going to go under water.
Right? Yeah. It'll definitely be under water. It's just a question of when,
because it's.
All like, they're like the, the ground itself is very porous. Is that correct?
Yeah. I mean, you know, we had, uh, uh, reclaimed wetlands, that's Miami beach.
That's where champion towers is reclaim wetlands. What does that mean?
It was mangroves, swamps, swamp. And that we reclaimed,
which means we filled it in and there's still poorest limestone underneath that
Champlain towers only had water coming at it from the front,
the back above and below. But other than that, it was totally dry.
I mean the tower.
Of the collapse.
Yeah. Just battered were getting battered.
They were on that porous limestone.
So it was built on reclaimed wetlands. And so I'll tell you right now,
as we speak, this is the, um, the king tides. You know what the king tides are?
No, they happen every September, October and November, not the entire time,
but there's like a week here, a weekend there for those three months,
it is what we call sunny day flooding. So it has to do with the tides.
It has to do with the, the,
the distance between the sun and the moon and the earth.
And it floods in the sunlight. It,
we can get as much as 12 inches,
12 inches above the highest high tide of the
year.
So it just, it's not.
From rain. It's not now here's the problem. We're still in hurricane season,
which means rain exacerbates it. Inclement weather can,
we're totally when it rains on top of the size, but this is just like a day.
Like you just, if you are in a low lying area or waterfront or ocean front bay,
front, that's just what sunny day. But it's perfectly,
it could be perfectly beautiful.
And you could have as much as 12 inches above the highest.
High tide. So it's just an unusual level of the ocean.
Yeah. It's just a quirk of, of the tides. It happens every year, uh,
off and on for three months. Yeah.
That's in the D S we call it sunny day flooding.
That's a thing that we have there. I mean, you know, Miami, we make it rain,
but we, now we have sunny, sunny day. Flooding is a thing.
And they can do like new Orleans, like put up some sort of, uh,
some sort of a wall.
So the, the army Corps of engineers proposed a kind of futuristic
post-apocalyptic, you know, after the flood, well,
pre-flood kind of a wall and Miami said, no gaseous. No, thank you.
We don't want that. We'll we'll, we'll we'll fend for ourselves. Did they say.
No because it was too expensive? Or did they say no because.
No, the army Corps of engineers I think was good.
Everything was gonna be federally funded.
They just didn't want this unsightly unseemly kind of a wall in our beautiful
town. But what they did want is they wanted a signature bridge.
We're building like this $800 million bridge that we don't need that. But it's,
it's super, it's super pretty. As we say in Miami, it's super pretty.
And somebody.
Probably got a good.
Deal. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You better believe the contractors. That's the thing.
That's why the Miami of today is the America of tomorrow.
It's really the corruption dysfunction in non-stop construction.
That's really what it is. It's this,
anything goes wild west kind of mentality because, you know,
I said this before on the show, you know, LA is where you go.
When you want to be somebody, New York is where you go.
When you are somebody in Miami is where you go.
When you want to be somebody else,
it's always been a sunny place for shady people. The Florida man phenomenon.
It's just like, you know, w w if you have,
it's not new England, it's not, what's your name. Who's your daddy.
Everyone's nouveau reach in Miami. So no one cares where your money came from.
As long as the booze is flowing and everybody's dancing, the music's going,
nobody gives a.
And it's always been that place. It's always been that party place.
You were telling me before, about how during, uh, w it, was it the seventies,
the eighties, these recording artists would go down.
Yeah, well, listen, uh, Miami is just it's America's Casa Blanca, you know?
And so some of the biggest records of all time, um, I mean,
back when that was the business, like you could sell tens of millions of albums.
Uh, everybody went to Miami. Eric Clapton was one of the first Jimmy buffet,
the BGS, the Eagles, Crosby stills, Nash, and young,
um, the almond brothers Fleetwood Mac.
And they were doing all those records that we all still know today from the
seventies, they recorded a mixed, or at least in part, um, uh,
uh, uh, Glenn Fry.
And Don Henley wrote the lyrics to hotel California in a rented mansion on Miami
beach, where it had, that had been the love nest, um,
of Howard's using Ava Gardner, uh, uh, Winston Churchill used it as a,
a winter home. Uh, and, um,
the Watergate burglars and Howard hunt used it as well. And then, um,
Steven stills used it. He was hanging out there with like Shel Silverstein.
They were, it was like a weird scene. And then, uh,
eventually the Eagles came down to do hotel California and wrote the lyrics.
They locked themselves, these two guys in a room, and they, they just,
the housekeeper left sandwiches and,
and drinks at the door cause the door was closed.
And they came down in bathrooms one day with, with legal pads, yellow,
legal pads, and said, we have it. We have, we have, we have the lyrics.
And so everybody, every, and it was a communal scene too.
It's kind of like your place with the, you know,
everybody just sorta like stops by people, stop by to get it.
It was like that because you had all these artists in every route, like,
so there was pickup basketball games outside,
you'd drive up and there'd be the BGS playing the almond brothers,
playing Eric Clapton and a pickup basketball game. And they,
to this day criteria studios, they have a wooden upright piano,
and the rumor has it. One day,
there was an artist I won't mention the name was playing and had a baggie of
cocaine on the top of the piano. And he was playing and the baggy fell open,
fell, boom, puff of smoke on the keys of the piano appropriately.
And he grabbed the bag and salvage what he could.
And then for the next several months,
the people at the studio who worked would stick a straw between the keys on the,
on the piano and tried to say mostly dust. They were probably snorted,
but they were just trying to salvage whatever they could for there. So the, the,
the, the joke was that, um, they had, uh,
a line item on the, uh, the bills. Cause that's the thing.
They were away from the watchful eyes and ears of the labels,
which were all based in New York and LA.
So they would go to Miami and no one knew what the was going.
I didn't have publicists or producers from, or executives rather from,
from the recording studio.
So they would send them bills to pay for the studio time.
There'd be a line item for cocaine, but you couldn't say cocaine. Um,
and I think by the way, cocaine was, at that time,
it was probably part of the appeal of bringing the artists to Miami, to be fair,
probably right. But it was under the category of piano.
Tuning was, was the cooking. So you get like some, you know, someone that,
you know, accounts at a record label would call up and say, Hey,
I have a question about this, this invoice, um, it's, it's,
there's $5,000 here for piano tuning, but there's only one ballad on the album.
So what's with all this piano tuning, you have there's, there was an act, uh,
God, I'm not going to say it,
but there was a band who came down in the eighties to record a criteria.
And then they came down again in the nineties and the guy who runs the studio,
Trevor, his mom was the manager before him.
So he was a little kid running around this scene.
If can imagine a little kid in Miami,
in the seventies running around this scene, this incredible place,
Aretha Franklin, did the respect record at criteria James Brown,
did I feel good, recorded that song at criteria. It's a really historic place.
And so he, this band comes in and he says to the lead singer, he says, Hey,
listen, I don't know if you remember, you know, you were down here 15 years ago,
whatever, back in the late seventies, early eighties doing this, this record.
And the singer says,
I have no memory of that whatsoever.
Except for one thing, he said, one night,
apparently we were done recording here.
And someone took us into the neighborhood.
It's like in a residential kind of area into the neighborhood,
to this woman's house.
And she brought out a brick of cocaine and entire kilos of cocaine heats.
I'd never seen that before she put it down on the coffee table,
we're sitting on the couch, she put it down on like, there's a big band. Uh,
they put it, she put it down on the coffee table. She cut it open.
And all I remember from my entire experience in Miami is the smell of that
entire kilo of cocaine. Like just what it feels like when an entire,
like an entire kilo of cocaine is opened up before you and it
hits and hits you. Have you ever done Coke? Never.
Never, but hearing that I want to snip.
I just want to know takeaway. I want to know what that's like,
watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.